20447292	A Double Shot at Love	A Double Shot at Love with the Ikki Twins, also referred to simply as A Double Shot at Love, is an American reality television dating game show that first aired weekly on MTV from December 9, 2008 to February 3, 2009. It is a spin- off of A Shot at Love with Tila Tequila. A reboot of the show starring Vinny Guadagnino and DJ Pauly D of Jersey Shore fame premiered in April 2019. ==Format== A Double Shot at Love with the Ikki Twins is a bisexual-themed dating competition featuring 12 hetero males and 12 lesbian femalesAlthough Angela was thought to be a lesbian, she revealed that she was straight after she was eliminated. living in a house with Rikki (Erica Mongeon) and Vikki (Victoria Mongeon) while competing for their attention and affection. ==Post- show== One of the contestants, Kandice (Kandi) Hutchinson, died in a car crash shortly after the end of production. Out of respect to her family, the producers edited Hutchinson's scenes to remove some of her more outrageous behavior. The second episode of the series was dedicated to her memory. On August 4, 2010, Vikki posted on her Myspace blog that she and Trevor had split up. ==Episodes== # Title First Aired 1 This Time, Let's Make it a Double! December 9, 2008 2 Kiss and (Don't) Tell December 16, 2008 3 Sticky and Sweet December 23, 2008 4 Lickety Split December 30, 2008 5 The Truth Will Set You Free January 6, 2009 6 Family Matters January 13, 2009 7 A Pair Beats Three of a Kind January 27, 2009 x Special: Happy Hour: A Double Shot at Love Reunion February 3, 2009 8 Who Will They Choose? February 3, 2009 x Special: A Double Shot at Love: One Shot Too Many February 3, 2009 : Episode numbering as per the episode list on the website ==Episode progress== ===Call-out order=== # Contestants Episodes Episodes Episodes Episodes Episodes Episodes Episodes Episodes # Contestants 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 1 Angela Elise Rebekah[m] Trevor Josh Scott Rebekah Rebekah Trevor 2 Bella Jen Trevor Xoe Trevor Trevor Trevor Trevor Rebekah 3 Ben Kali Nicky Scott Xoe Rebekah Scott Scott 4 Claudia Kandi Elise Rosemarie Rebekah Rosemarie Rosemarie 5 Corey ("Coop") Nicky Paul Kali Scott[m] Xoe 6 Dana Rebekah Kali Josh Rosemarie Josh 7 David Rosemarie Matt Nick Kali 8 Elise Xoe Jen Rebekah Nick 9 Fazio Ben Scott Elise 10 Freddy Coop Josh Jen 11 James James Xoe Matt 12 Jen Josh Rosemarie Nicky 13 Josh Matt Nick Paul 14 Kali Nick Kandi 15 Kandice Paul James 16 Matt Scott Coop 17 Nick Trevor Ben 18 Nicky David 19 Paul Freddy 20 Rebekah Fazio 21 Rosemarie Angela 22 Scott Bella 23 Trevor Claudia 24 Xoe Dana : The contestant won with both twins, but chose Vikki. : The contestant is female. : The contestant is male. : The contestant was eliminated. : The contestant won a challenge and went on a group date. : The contestant won a challenge and went on an individual date. : The contestant won two challenges and went on a group date and an individual date. : The contestant won a challenge, but was eliminated. : The contestant was eliminated outside of the elimination ceremony. :[m]The contestant was deemed the "MVP" by the twins. * The call-out order is the order in which the contestants were given keys. * In episode one, the eliminated contestants were asked to return their keys. Alphabetical order is used for the contestants who were allowed to keep their keys. ===Reasons for elimination=== Name Eliminated Reason for elimination Angela Episode 1 The twins did not feel a connection with her. Bella Episode 1 The twins were not into her tattoos. Claudia Episode 1 The twins thought a dominatrix was too wild for them. Dana Episode 1 The twins thought she was too boring. David Episode 1 The twins were not into his tattoos. Freddy Episode 1 The twins thought he was more interested in partying than love.As stated in the Web Exclusives Fazio Episode 1 The twins thought he "came off too hard." Ben Episode 2 The twins felt that he was clinging to innocence and comedy. Coop Episode 2 The twins were disgusted by him farting during their alone time with him. James Episode 2 The twins did not agree with his stance on gay marriage. Kandi Episode 2 The twins saw her as a fun person to party with, but did not feel a connection. She died before this Episode was aired. Elise Episode 3 The twins thought she did not try too hard in either of the challenges. Jen Episode 3 The twins had a better connection with Rebekah. Matt Episode 3 The twins had a better connection with Nick. Nicky Episode 3 The twins did not have a strong connection with her. Paul Episode 3 Though the specific reason for his elimination was not stated on air, it is implied that the twins did not have a connection with him. Nick Episode 4 The twins felt like he did not make a connection with Vikki until it was too late. Kali Episode 4 The twins thought she did not open up enough. Josh Episode 5 The twins found out about his fling with Rosemarie, and they were furious that he kept changing his story about what happened. Xoe Episode 5 The twins felt as if she was ashamed to bring them home to her dad, who did not know she was a lesbian. Rosemarie Episode 6 The twins felt as if she was paying more attention to her dog than them when they went to meet her family; plus they did not get a good first impression of her family after seeing them get into a heated argument. Scott Episode 7 Specific reason not stated on air. Implication that the twins had better connections with Trevor and Rebekah. Rebekah Episode 8 Specific reason not stated on air. Implication that the twins had a better connection with Trevor. ==Revival== In January 2019, MTV revived the show to now star Jersey Shore personalities Pauly D and Vinny Guadagnino. The revival premiered on April 11, 2019. ==References== ==External links== * A Double Shot at Love Official Website * A Double Shot at Love Trailer * Category:2008 American television series debuts Category:2009 American television series endings Category:2000s American LGBT-related television series Category:2000s American reality television series Category:Bisexuality-related television series Category:American dating and relationship reality television series Category:MTV game shows Category:2000s American game shows Category:2000s LGBT-related reality television series Category:American television series revived after cancellation Category:American LGBT-related reality television series