thumb|Józef Bem as Hungarian commander-in-chief "A Funeral Rhapsody in Memory of General Bem" (in Polish Bema pamięci żałobny rapsod) is a poem by Polish poet Cyprian Norwid,Jerzy R. Krzyzanowski, Cyprian Norwid, Polish poet at Encyclopaedia Britannica. a descendant of the Polish king John III Sobieski. It is an elegy for a famous Polish commander, Józef Bem,Józef Zachariasz Bem, Polish general at Encyclopaedia Britannica. who was a hero of three nations, Polish, Hungarian and Turkish. It was written in 1851. The poem is a description of an imaginary funeral. It is described as a funeral of a medieval knight or Slavic warrior, encased in armour, with his horse and a falcon, accompanied by groups of boys and girls.Lucylla Pszczołowska, Wiersz polski. Zarys historyczny, Fundacja na Rzecz Nauki Polskiej, Wrocław 1997, p. 218. The poem is especially interesting because of its form. It was written in rhymed hexameter. All the lines are made up of fifteen (7+8) syllables according to the pattern ' x ' x x ' x || ' x x ' x x ' x.Wiktor Jarosław Darasz, Mały przewodnik po wierszu polskim, Towarzystwo Miłośników Języka Polskiego, Kraków 2003, p. 72. The rhapsody opens with a Latin citation of Hannibal: iusiurandum patri datum usque ad hanc diem ita servavi (The oath given to father I have kept even unto this day) Norwid's poem was often used and performed by Zbigniew Herbert and was translated into English by Adam Czerniawski. == In popular culture == Mourner's Rhapsody was sung by Czesław NiemenGitarzysta Niemena: kocham ten czas, kiedy grałem z Czesławem at Polskie Radio Official Site.Niemen - Bema Pamięci Żałobny Rapsod at YouTube (Polish) and published in 1970 in Poland (Niemen: Enigmatic).Czesław Niemen - Bema pamięci rapsod żałobny (original video clip) In 1974 supported by John Abercrombie, Michał Urbaniak and some members of the Mahavishnu Orchestra the rhapsody was published by CBS Records International (Niemen: Mourner's Rhapsody).† Czeslaw Niemen - Mourner`s Rapsody at YouTube (English)NIEMEN - Mourner's Rhapsody at YouTube (English) Intro of the 1970 Polish release was also bootlegged in 1977 by a German band Jane on their album Between Heaven and Hell.Jane - Between Heaven and Hell 2/2 == References == == Bibliography == Cyprian Kamil Norwid, Poezje. Poems. Selection, translation and afterword by Adam Czerniawski, Wydawnictwo Literackie, Kraków 1986, . Category:Polish poems Category:1851 poems