A Dream of Splendor () is a 2022 Chinese historical drama television series directed by Yang Yang and starring Liu Yifei, Chen Xiao, Lin Yun and Liu Yan. Set in the Northern Song Dynasty, the series is based on the (Yuan Opera- style) drama Zhao Pan'er Fengyue Jiu Feng Chen《赵盼儿风月救风尘》 by the Yuan Dynasty playwright Guan Hanqing. It is airing on Tencent Video and WeTV from June 2, 2022 to July 24, 2022. Hong Kong's TVB was the first television station to broadcast this drama on TVB Jade from September 5, 2022 to October 14, 2022, previously on its streaming service MyTV SUPER from June 9 to July 2, 2022. It later went on national broadcast and aired simultaneously on Beijing Satellite Television from 22 November 2022. == Synopsis == Zhao Pan'er is the owner of a famous tea shop in Qiantang. She supported Ouyang Xu for 3 years before he went to Bianjing to attempt the imperial exam, promising to marry her once he passes. She discovers that though her fiancé won third place in the imperial examination, he plans to wed the daughter of an official and take Zhao Pan'er as a concubine instead of as his main wife. Unwilling to accept her fate, she decides to go to Bianjing and seek justice. On the way, she meets Gu Qianfan, an upright commander from the Imperial City, and they become entangled in a big case in Jiangnan. Zhao Pan'er rescues Song Yinzhang, who was tricked into marriage and abused, and Sun Sanniang, a chef who was driven to suicide by her callous husband and son, and the three sisters arrive in Bianjing together. In order not to be driven away from Bianjing by Ouyang Xu, Zhao Pan'er, Song Yinzhang and Sun Sanniang persevere through many hardships and develop a small teahouse into the largest restaurant in Bianjing, expose the true face of heartless men, and open a door to redemption for countless ordinary women. == Broadcast time == Channel Location Broadcast Date Broadcast Time Remarks Tencent Video June 2, 2022–June 26, 2022 20:00 VIP members will update 8 episodes for the first time Update 4 consecutively in the first week Daily Update 2 episodes every Thursday to Saturday Update 2 episodes for the first time for non-VIP members Update 1 episode every Thursday to Monday WeTV Overseas June 2, 2022-July 3, 2022 20:00 myTV SUPER June 9, 2022 – July 2, 2022 20:00 Netflix Overseas July 1, 2022-July 24, 2022 Astro GO June 8, 2022-July 22, 2022 20:00 Update 1 episode every Monday to Friday Jade September 5, 2022-October 14, 2022 20:30 Dubbed in Cantonese Reduced to 30 episodes. Jade TVB Anywhere service area (only in Singapore) September 5, 2022-October 14, 2022 20:30 Dubbed in Cantonese Reduced to 30 episodes. Beijing Satellite TV November 22, 2022- 19:30 Quality Theater == Caste System == An unusual aspect of this series is that it explicitly addresses and explores the caste system of the Northern Song dynasty. Caste systems existed in China, though they are not as famous or rigid as the ones in India and Edo Period Japan. Broadly speaking, the general citizenry were classed as either "Dastardly" or "Virtuous" based on their profession and ancestry, with a complex system of sub-castes within these two broad classifications. "Dastardly" citizens were restricted in various ways, had fewer civil rights, and were ineligible for imperial examinations and public office. It was not explicitly illegal for women from a "dastardly" background to become the main wife of an official, but it was severely frowned upon and considered to be a mark of poor character. "Dastardly" professions in this series include merchants, businessmen, and "entertainers", a category which includes the sub-castes of instrument players, singers, dancers, and prostitutes. Scholars have always been highly regarded throughout Chinese history, so of course, they are considered "Virtuous". Zhao Pan'er's father was a general who violated military orders in order to save citizens from slaughter. As part of his punishment, his family were demoted to "sinners" and Zhao Pan'er was trained as a government-regulated "entertainer". She was later "ransomed/redeemed" by her father's comrades and regained her freedom, but her time as a "sinner" would forever be regarded as a blemish to her reputation if it was ever found out. After being "ransomed/redeemed", Zhao Pan'er opened a tea shop and became a business owner. Zhao Pan'er's background as a business owner and former sinner was the primary motivation behind Ouyang Xu concealing his relationship with her and later on, reneging on marrying her as his main wife, the inciting incident which sets the story in motion. The Empress was also a former entertainer, and her attempts to protect her identity, and her schemes against those who criticize her for being unworthy of her position, all play key roles in the story. Song Yinzhang, a talented Pipa player, also struggles with her identity as an "entertainer" of the "dastardly" caste. == Cast == === Main cast === 'Actor Role Introduction ' Cantonese Dubbing (TVB) Liu Yifei Zhao Paner When she appeared on the stage, she was the proprietress of the tea shop by the Qiantang River. With its beautiful appearance and brilliance, anyone who sees it can't help but call it stunning the world. Born as a daughter of an official family, but because of his father's unfortunate crimes, he was forced to confiscate his lowly status and became an official trick. As a woman in performing arts, she does not sell herself. Although her father's former ministry begged for forgiveness, she became a Congregation again, but her status as a lowly family was always her greatest shame and embarrassment. After Congliang, she made a living by running a tea shop by the Qiantang River and in the city of Tokyo and met her fiancé Ouyang successively. Xu and Gu Qianfan, but Ouyang Xu was favored by the Gao family and engaged to Gao Hui after Jiji. He repented his marriage to Zhao Pan'er and proposed to accept her as a concubine but was rejected. When they first met Gu Qianfan, they had a misunderstanding due to misunderstandings. Later, they were helped by Gu Qianfan many times. Zhang Songxin Chen Xiao (Childhood: Ziyi) 李凯杰 (Childhood: Wei Hui'e) Deputy envoy of the department, he was promoted to the envoy of the imperial city after the hat demon case. He was born noble and was the son of Prime Minister Xiao Qinyan, who later abandoned Qianfan's mother and son for an official career, so he followed his mother's surname Gu. He is both civil and military, upright and upright, and takes upholding justice as his own duty. He shows no mercy to the prisoners sent to the Imperial City Division, because he is cold-blooded and ruthless when interrogated, and has no humanity in front of the truth, so he is called "Living Yama". I met Zhao Pan'er on the way to perform the mission, even if she was a woman, she would not show any sympathy for her, but the two got to know each other better in crisis after crisis and felt reluctant to let go of the perseverance and strength under Zhao Pan'er's beautiful face, so gradually Deep roots of love. Liu Yan Sun Sanniang Zhao Paner's neighbor. Born as a butcher, he has great strength. Excellent cooking skills, especially good at Jiangnan dishes and desserts. I have known Zhao Panzer for a long time and talked about everything. She is a virtuous person, able to give everything for her husband and son. Knowing that her husband is having an affair with a widow, her only son even recognizes her as her mother. In despair, she jumps into the river and commits suicide. She is saved by Gu Qianfan and Zhao Panzer. Gan stabbed Zhao Pan'er in both sides, and never left him. Opened a tea shop in Tokyo with Zhao Paner and Song Yinzhang. Du Changfeng and Du Changfeng are a pair of happy friends. At first, they could not understand Zhao Paner because Changfeng persuaded him to be a concubine. Later, because Du Changfeng was always bullied by the students, he stood up for him. The two gradually got together, and finally, He asked the emperor to marry them and was granted. Liu Huiyun Lin Yun Song Yinzhang Qiantang musicians. The pipa skill is unique in the south of the Yangtze River. The pipa he plays is called Guyue. Although he is an official jiaofangmusic performer, he does not sell himself as a performer. She is in love with Zhao Paner and Sun Sanniang as sisters. In the early stage, she has a naive and confident personality, which always makes Zhao Paner and Sun Sanniang feel worried. Spare no effort to get out of 贱书, and lose judgment in order to get out of the country. Regardless of Zhao Pan'er's advice, he elopes with Zhou She, but he is entrusted to someone who is not a person. He is imprisoned and beaten by Zhou She, and his savings are all stolen. I once hoped that the three sisters could support each other until they grow old, and never get married. Later, she had a crush on Gu Qianfan, and after learning that Gu Qianfan's sweetheart was Zhao Pan'er and that she was the only one buried in the dark, heartbroken and angry, she agreed to Shen Ruzhuo's pursuit, but once again entrusted her to someone inhumane. After exposing Shen Ruzhuo's true face, he completely sees through the love between his children and grows up overnight. Ling Xi === Other cast === 'Actor Role Introduction ' Cantonese Dubbing (TVB) Xu Haiqiao Li Zhilin In the past, she failed the test repeatedly, and later received the favor of Zhao Panzer, and made a marriage contract with him, and finally passed the scientific examination three years later. Later, for the sake of his official career, he accepted the love of Gao Hui, the daughter of the powerful minister Gao Hu, and broke the marriage contract with Zhao Pan'er. After that, he connived with the housekeeper to slander Zhao Pan'er and others in his own name and then expelled her from Tokyo. In order to avoid being retaliated against by Zhao in Tokyo, he flattered and flattered him when he entered the palace and was awarded the post of Deputy Envoy of Zuo Lang Ziji Palace, and escaped to Xijing. However, he was despised by Gao Hu because of this, so the marriage contract with Gao Hui was broken, and he went to Xijing to take office, secretly vowing to return triumphantly in the near future. He killed Uncle De and tried to assassinate Zhao Pan'er, but failed, and was finally captured by the emperor and handed over to the Imperial City Secretary with full authority. Dai Xu Chi Pan A well-known playboy in Tokyo, born into a family of merchants, known as Chi Ya Nei. People are stupid and have a lot of money, and they are often played around without knowing it. It turned out that Zhang Haohao was a good friend and was at odds with Zhao Paner. After breaking up with Zhang Haohao, they were helped by Zhao Paner by chance. A different kind of relationship arises, but because Zhao Pan'er has her own heart, she later turns to Song Yinzhang. Zhong Jianlin Zhang Xiaoqian Du Changfeng Befriends Ouyang Xu, born into a wealthy family in the capital, with outdated and pedantic thinking. cute side. Suffering from night blindness caused severe myopia, resulting in blurred vision. To see close objects, I need to rely on 叆叇 (similar to today's myopia glasses). In the beginning, she tried to persuade Zhao Pan'er to commit herself to Ouyang Xu as a concubine, but Sun Sanniang threw herself into the water in public in a rage. Later, without knowing that the tea shop was opened by Zhao Paner and Sun Sanniang, he became a regular customer. He and Sun Sanniang were enemies. After Ouyang Xu made a big mistake, he tried to persuade him to surrender, but to no avail. Finally, he was rewarded by the emperor to marry Sun Sanniang. Huang Qichang Guan Yunpeng Chen Lian At first he worked in Ship Department, and later transferred to Huangcheng Department. He is shrewd and observant, and he is sophisticated in dealing with things. When Gu Qianfan was in distress at the beginning, he was threatened and had no choice but to compromise. Later, he learned that Gu Qianfan was working in the Imperial City Division and decided to follow. Under the guidance of Gu Qianfan, he took care of Zhao Pan'er, Sun Sanniang, and Song Yinzhang. The three of them also treated Chen Lian as a younger brother. In the beginning, he and Ge Zhaodi were friends but gradually fell in love with her. Hu Jiahao Li Muchen Ge Zhaodi Instigated by Nanny Gao Hui at the beginning, she went to the tea shop with her accomplices to frame Zhao Pan'er and others. Party betrayal. Afterward, he changed his former mistakes, turned enemies into friends with Zhao and the other three, and waited in the tea shop. He and Chen Lian were enemies at the beginning but later fell in love with him. Ye Xiaoxin Kana Zhang Haohao Tokyo's No. 1 Geisha. His eyebrows are picturesque, and he smiles sweetly. Performing art but not selling oneself, conceited of talent and beauty, unwilling to be inferior to others, thinking that even if one is a lowly citizen, one should live out one's own world. In the beginning, he made good friends with Zhao Pan'er, Song Yinzhang, and others. Later, Yinzhang was unwilling to be famous for it, and secretly jealous of him, and later reconciled, and reminded Yinzhang of Shen Ruzhuo's true colors. Chi Pan was originally a good friend, but later the two broke up. Zhan Jianer Sun Zujun Shen Ruzhuo Born in a famous family in the capital, the son of Shen Ming, who was reviewed by the Yili Bureau, on the surface is an official son who is obsessed with music, singing, dancing, romantic, and playing with the world. She seems to love Song Yinzhang very much, but in fact, she wants to use her beauty to win the support of officials in Vanity Fair for herself, so as to maintain the dignity of the Shen family in Tokyo. Attempt to dedicate Song Yinzhang to officials, but Song Yinzhang saw through and retaliated against. Huang Jiquan Wang Luoyong Xiao Qinyan Gu Qianfan's biological father, Suzhou Zhizhou, Pingjiang Army Jiedushi, post-official worship prime minister. The most powerful and powerful position in his life, with deep scheming and unscrupulous means to achieve his goals, is the head of the famous treacherous ministers in the court. When he was from a poor family, he was in love with Gu Shuniang, Gu Qianfan's mother, and they married and gave birth to Gu Qianfan. He grows up and has both civil and military skills. On the contrary, his other sons are far behind him in achievement. He intends to make Gu Qianfan take charge of the Xiao family and inherit the mantle. Zhao Shiliang Baojianfeng Emperor Good Taoist magic. He met Ouyang Xu and other Jinshi and asked them about their daily leisure time. Ouyang loved to study Huang Lao's art. Shangyu, who was awarded the post of Deputy Envoy of Zuo Zuolang Ziji Palace, was ordered to go to Xijing to ask a fairy master to come out of the mountain. He has a strong relationship with the queen. Zhai Yaohui Liu Kejun Liu Wan Queen, from humble origin. Zeng Xiuqing Jia Ze Gao Hui Gao Hu's only daughter. A pure and kind-hearted lady who is loved by thousands of people, she once fell in love with Ouyang Xu and firmly refused her father to break up her marriage. After Zhao Pan'er reminded her, she sent someone to investigate Ouyang Xu's past before accepting the truth. Retired and became friends with Zhao Paner. Huang Xinyu Li Shengjia Xiao Wei Gu Qianfan's half- brother. Zhang Fangzheng Lu Yong Zhang Jinjiang Flatter the officials. Because he admired Song Yinzhang during the banquet, Guyue bestowed the inscription on the pipa played by Song Yinzhang with the word "strength of character". Yao Anlian Qi Mu The official worships Yushi Zhongcheng. Because of his discord with Xiao Qinyan and jealousy of his trust by the officials, he deliberately framed him, even using Gu Qianfan as his own pawn, and instigating Xiao Qinyan's father and son to turn against each other, but he regarded himself as Qingliu. After Gu Qianfan formally drew a line with him, he gradually revealed his true colors. After the final defeat, he was sentenced to exile. Li Jinlun Du Yuming Lei Jing Imperial City Envoy. Afraid that Gu Qianfan's ability would threaten his status, he often planned to kill Gu Qianfan, but Xiao Qinyan came forward to mediate, but because of his power, he had no choice but to give up. Lin Guoxiong Gao Changyuan Yu Zhongquan Lei Jing's confidant. Jealous of Gu Qianfan's ability and at odds with him, in order to restrain Gu Qianfan and frame Zhao Pan'er but failed, he was found to be colluding with foreigners in Xixia, and embezzled Lei Jing's family property. Chen Yaonan Chen Zhen Zheng Qingtian Magistrate of Qiantang County. Opened the sea ban privately, colluded with Lei Jing to deal with Gu Qianfan, and was later bestowed to death by Xiao Qinyan. Thunder Yin Zhusheng Gao Hu Observation envoy, Gao Hui's father, originally Ouyang Xu's future father-in-law. A proud philistine, good at judging the current situation. I like to collect famous paintings. After Ouyang Xu's pilot test, he caught his son-in-law at the top of the list, thinking that he came from a poor family and could be easily controlled. Later, when he learned that Ouyang Xu was appointed as a palace official, he angrily tore up the marriage contract. She once coveted Zhao Pan'er's beauty and intelligence, and wanted to take her as a concubine and molested her. Pan Wenbo Zhu Hui Uncle De Ouyang Xu's housekeeper. He likes to worship high and step down, often violates Ouyang Xu's confession and makes his own decisions, and hates Zhao Pan'er. In the end, he was killed by Ouyang Xu. Ye Zhensheng Hu Yuxuan He Si The follower of Chi Ya Nei, he is good friends with Zhao Paner and Sun Sanniang. Liu Yixi Zhang Xiang Zhou She Qiantang businessman. See profit and forget righteousness, good flattery and gambling. At first, she cheated on marrying Song Yinzhang. After getting married, she showed her gambling nature. In order to force Song Yinzhang to take out her savings, she was imprisoned in the house and beat and kicked. The government, instead, was detained in a prison and later sentenced to exile. Deng Zhijian Liu Yajin Yuan Tuntian A frequent visitor with a half-hidden face. Li Jinlun Guo Jinjie Fu Xingui Sun Sanniang's husband divorced his wife and married his sister-in-law. No dialogue Han Yuanqi Fu Zifang Son of Sun Sanniang, ignorant. In the beginning, because he was dissatisfied with Sun Sanniang's teaching, he followed Fu Xingui and his stepmother. Later, because he was dissatisfied with Fu Xingui and his stepmother, he traveled thousands of miles to Beijing to follow Sun Sanniang and Du Changfeng. Luo Kongrou Yu Menghan Silver Vase Song Yinzhang's personal maid. Cheng Yaoyu Liu Wei Mr. Zhuoshi A frequent visitor with half-hidden face. Ye Zhensheng Chen Xuming Xu Zhizhou Xiuzhou Zhizhou. Lu Guoquan Zhang Liqiu Jiang family Gao Hui's nanny. Rebina Li Xingmei Su Niang The lady who played the pipa in Chatang Lane was called by Zhao Paner to listen to Song Yinzhang playing the pipa but was impressed by Song Yinzhang's pipa skills. He Luyi ==Song== ===Original Soundtrack=== ===Hong Kong TVB version's Soundtrack=== Lead singer Song Composer Written lyrics Arrangement Supervisor Hana Kuk I am like before (theme song) Lau Yi-shing Hayes Yeung Lau Yi-shing Lau Yi-shing Sherman Poon When the Tomorrow Starts (end song) Tam Yu- sun Hayes Yeung Freddie Lo Lau Yi-shing == Awards == * 2022 The 13th Macao International Television Festival|The 13th Macao International Television Festival Best Actress in "Golden Lotus": Liu Yifei. == International broadcast == Country Channel Date Time slot Notes Jade September 5, 2022 - October 14, 2022 Monday to Friday 20:30-21:30 Dubbed in Cantonese. Reduced to 30 episodes with 60 minutes per episode. == References == == External links == * * * Category:2022 Chinese television series debuts Category:2022 web series debuts Category:2022 web series endings Category:Chinese historical television series Category:Chinese romance television series Category:Chinese web series Category:Mandarin-language television shows Category:Television series based on plays Category:Television series by Tencent Penguin Pictures Category:Tencent original programming