74048629	A Gift & a Curse	A Gift & a Curse is the fourth studio album by American rapper Gunna. It was released through YSL Records and 300 Entertainment on June 16, 2023. Production on the album was handled by Turbo, Omar Grand, Cam Griffin, Kenny Stuntin, Sim, Nils, Pooh Beatz, Lnk, Mario Peterson, Flo, X-Plosive, Royal808, Dunk Rock, Angelo, Yung Talent, Willis Keaton, Slowburnzz, 88 Krazy, Larrance Dopson, Swiff D, Evrgrn, Zookids, Aviator Keyyz, Rick Anthony, Sammy Haig, Cubeatz, Fresh Ayr, and Jojokelete. The album was released as a surprise and is Gunna's first project to not feature any guest appearances. It was supported by one single, "Bread & Butter", which was released exactly two weeks prior, and serves as the follow-up to his previous album, DS4Ever (2022). ==Background== On May 9, 2022, American rapper Young Thug, who is the founder of the record label Young Stoner Life, one of the labels that Gunna is signed to, was arrested on charges of conspiracy to violate the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO). Two days later, Gunna turned himself in after it was told that prosecutors were looking to have him arrested soon for the same charge as Thug. Both rappers, along with some other people of the 26 other affiliates of the label that were also arrested, were denied bond multiple times after their arrests. Gunna was released from jail after taking an Alford plea on December 14, 2022. However, after his release, he was frequently referred to as a "snitch" and a "rat" alongside other nicknames by other fellow rappers and fans of hip hop music because of the deal he took. Thug still remained incarcerated at the time of the release of A Gift & a Curse. ==Release and promotion== On June 2, 2023, Gunna released the lead single of the album, "Bread & Butter", which saw him denouncing these rumors that were spread about him and debuted and peaked at number 48 on the Billboard Hot 100. On June 14, 2023, his 30th birthday, he announced the album and shared its cover art along with a pre-save link, and it was surprise- released two days later. The rest of the songs on the album also see Gunna address the controversies as he also expresses his vulnerability and the pain that he felt from his situation. ==Lyrics== A Gift & a Curse primarily focuses on the allegations that have been made about Gunna, with each track seeing him telling his side of the story while calling out those who accused him of being a snitch, as well as old friends who cut ties with him after he took the plea. Gunna also expresses his feelings on the situation and recalls the events that happened in jail and in his case, but he does not explicitly reference the case. On the opening track, "Back at It", Gunna starts quickly and lightly rapping in the starting chorus. The third track, "IDK NoMore", sees him express his sobriety after staying off drugs and alcohol while he was in jail for seven months ("Took months without no syrup, ain't no more codeine in my liver") and later references former relationships that have soured after his release from jail at the end of the song ("We burned the bridge and cut the ties and forever apart / And I know there be a time you really show who you are"). On the next track, "Paybach", he asserts his innocence in the case ("Niggas say I did it and I swear that I ain't did it") and calls out the justice system for allegedly wrongfully trying to keep him in jail ("Motherfuck the system, tryna give us all a sentence"). The seventh track, "Rodeo Dr", sees him saying that he has lately been confronting people who have said that he gave information for his own benefit: "I know you heard I been pullin' up, pressin' these niggas who claimin' I ratted". On the ninth track, "P Angels", Gunna diverts from the main theme of the album. On the twelfth track and lead single of the album, "Bread & Butter", he calls out a former friend for turning against him when he got out of jail: "You switched on me when you know you in business with a rat / And the boy that's like your brother, ain't nobody speak on that". The next track, "Turned Your Back", sees him refute claims that were earlier spread on social media that he would end his record deal with YSL Records and sign to a new record label: "I heard the rumors sayin' I'm packin' up and flyin' out / We ain't goin' nowhere, I'm stayin' here, gon fight it out". The track after that, "I Was Just Thinking" sees him express the loneliness that he felt while he was in jail ("Twenty- three and one, how you feel when you alone? / That's four walls talkin' to you, tellin' you you gone") and calls for Young Thug's freedom from jail ("Only I done cried 'cause this feelin' for my bro (King Slime) / And you know my mind, you done watched that nigga grow / Know you hearin' the lies that your lil' brother might fold / Yeah, I had popped out, but don't let 'em say I told"). On the fifteenth and closing track of the album, "Alright", Gunna accepts the struggles that he had faced in jail and because of his case ("All I feel is pain, but it's gon be alright / Dirt all on my name, say I'm wrong and I ain't right") and he later assures himself that he will be okay and hopes for a brighter future ("A lot of people changed, it won't ever be the same, but it's gon be alright"). ==Critical reception== A Gift & a Curse received generally favorable reviews. At Metacritic, which assigns a normalized rating out of 100 to reviews from professional publications, the album received an average score of 70, based on five reviews. Robin Murray of Clash wrote that the album was "succinct, finessed, and packs a punch". Writing for Mic Cheque, Hamza Riaz opined that it "shows that Gunna is YSL's most valuable asset, constantly honing his sound and this time adding a new layer to his predictable output". In a mixed review, Alphonse Pierre of Pitchfork felt like the album was "too vague to have much depth and too absorbed in real-life drama to have the feel-good vibes he wants to preserve". Writing for Slant Magazine, Paul Attard felt that "Gunna gives us more of himself than he ever has before, and even if much of the lyrical substance of the album is undermined in a few weeks' time, that in and of itself is worth celebrating". ==Commercial performance== In the United States, A Gift & a Curse debuted at number three on Billboard 200 chart, earning 85,000 album- equivalent units (including 1,000 in pure album sales) in its first week. This became Gunna's fifth top ten album in total, with four out of the five credited to him, on the chart. The album also accumulated a total of 112.65 million on-demand streams of the album's songs. ==Track listing== ==Charts== Chart performance for A Gift & a Curse Chart (2023) Peak position Australian Albums (ARIA) 49 Lithuanian Albums (AGATA) 37 New Zealand Albums (RMNZ) 12 ==References== Category:2023 albums Category:Gunna (rapper) albums Category:Albums produced by Cubeatz Category:YSL Records albums